CWE

Common Weakness Enumeration

A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become vulnerabilities

New to CWE? click here!
CWE Most Important Hardware Weaknesses
CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Weaknesses
Home > CWE List > CWE- Individual Dictionary Definition (4.14)                                                                                                   ID Lookup: [                    ] [Go]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Home
  • About ▼
    About New to CWE User Stories History Documents FAQs Glossary Compatibility
  • CWE List ▼
    Latest Version Downloads Reports Visualizations Archive
  • Mapping ▼
    Root Cause Mapping Guidance Root Cause Mapping Quick Tips Root Cause Mapping Examples
  • Top-N Lists ▼
    Top 25 Software Top Hardware Top 10 KEV Weaknesses
  • Community ▼
    Community Working Groups & Special Interest Groups Board Board Meeting Minutes CWE Discussion List CWE Discussion Archives Contribute Weakness Content to CWE
  • News ▼
    Current News X-Twitter ● Mastodon ● LinkedIn ● YouTube YouTube Podcast Out of Bounds Read Podcast Medium Medium News Archive
  • Search

 
 CWE Glossary Definition                  x
 
 
 CWE-1025: Comparison Using Wrong Factors
 
 Weakness ID: 1025
 Vulnerability Mapping: ALLOWEDThis CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities
 Abstraction: BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level
 weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.
 View customized information:
 Conceptual For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. Operational For users who are concerned with the
 practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. Mapping
 Friendly For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. 
 Complete For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. Custom For users who want to customize what details are displayed.
 ×

 Edit Custom Filter

 Conceptual Operational Mapping Friendly Select All
 
 Reset Clear Submit Cancel
 + Description
 The code performs a comparison between two entities, but the comparison examines the wrong factors or characteristics of the entities, which can lead to incorrect results and resultant weaknesses.
 + Extended Description
 This can lead to incorrect results and resultant weaknesses. For example, the code might inadvertently compare references to objects, instead of the relevant contents of those objects, causing two
 "equal" objects to be considered unequal.
 + Relationships
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                               Type                                                                                                                                                                            ID       Name
 ChildOf                                                                                 PillarPillar - a weakness that is the most abstract type of weakness and represents a theme for all class/base/variant weaknesses related to it. A Pillar is different from a Category as a Pillar is                                                                          697     Incorrect
                                                                                                                    still technically a type of weakness that describes a mistake, while a Category represents a common characteristic used to group related things.                                                                                                            Comparison
 ParentOf                                                                                VariantVariant - a weakness that is linked to a certain type of product, typically involving a specific language or technology. More specific than a Base weakness. Variant level weaknesses typically                                                                         486     Comparison
                                                                                                                                describe issues in terms of 3 to 5 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.                                                                                                                         of Classes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by Name
 ParentOf                                                                                VariantVariant - a weakness that is linked to a certain type of product, typically involving a specific language or technology. More specific than a Base weakness. Variant level weaknesses typically                                                                         595     Comparison
                                                                                                                                describe issues in terms of 3 to 5 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.                                                                                                                         of Object
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Instead of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Object
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Contents
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 438     Behavioral Problems
 + Modes Of Introduction
 Section HelpThe different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur,
 while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.
     Phase                                                                                              Note
 Implementation
 + Applicable Platforms
 Section HelpThis listing shows possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a
 class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.

 Languages

 Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)

 + Common Consequences
 Section HelpThis table specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the
 negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen
 relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited
 to achieve a different impact.
       Scope                                                                                     Impact                                                                                 Likelihood
 Other              Technical Impact: Varies by Context

 + Demonstrative Examples
 
 Example 1

 In the example below, two Java String objects are declared and initialized with the same string values. An if statement is used to determine if the strings are equivalent.

 (bad code)
 Example Language: Java 
 String str1 = new String("Hello");
 String str2 = new String("Hello");
 if (str1 == str2) {
 System.out.println("str1 == str2");
 }

 However, the if statement will not be executed as the strings are compared using the "==" operator. For Java objects, such as String objects, the "==" operator compares object references, not object
 values. While the two String objects above contain the same string values, they refer to different object references, so the System.out.println statement will not be executed. To compare object
 values, the previous code could be modified to use the equals method:

 (good code)
  
 if (str1.equals(str2)) {
 System.out.println("str1 equals str2");
 }
 + Potential Mitigations
 Phase: Testing

 Thoroughly test the comparison scheme before deploying code into production. Perform positive testing as well as negative testing.
 + Weakness Ordinalities
 Ordinality                                                                                       Description
 Primary    (where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 + Memberships
 Section HelpThis MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness
 fits within the context of external information sources.
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1397    Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 + Vulnerability Mapping Notes
 Usage: ALLOWED

 (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
 Reason: Acceptable-Use

 Rationale:

 This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
 Comments:

 Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred
 level of abstraction.
 + Content History
                                                                                            + Submissions
                               Submission Date                                                           Submitter                                                  Organization
 2018-01-04                                                                  CWE Content Team                                                   MITRE
 (CWE 3.1, 2018-03-29)

                                                                                           + Modifications
                              Modification Date                                                           Modifier                                                  Organization
 2020-02-24                                                                  CWE Content Team                                                   MITRE
                                                                             updated Description, Relationships
 2021-03-15                                                                  CWE Content Team                                                   MITRE
                                                                             updated Demonstrative_Examples
 2023-04-27                                                                  CWE Content Team                                                   MITRE
                                                                             updated Relationships
 2023-06-29                                                                  CWE Content Team                                                   MITRE
                                                                             updated Mapping_Notes
 More information is available — Please edit the custom filter or select a different filter.
Page Last Updated: February 29, 2024
 
      Site Map | Terms of Use | Manage Cookies | Cookie Notice | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | CWE X-Twitter CWE Mastodon CWE on LinkedIn CWE YouTube channel CWE Out-of-Bounds-Read Podcast CWE
      Blog on Medium blog

MITRE Use of the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) and the associated references from this website are subject to the Terms of Use. CWE is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland         HSSEDI
      Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and managed by the Homeland Security Systems Engineering and Development Institute (HSSEDI) which is operated by
      The MITRE Corporation (MITRE). Copyright © 2006–2024, The MITRE Corporation. CWE, CWSS, CWRAF, and the CWE logo are trademarks of The MITRE Corporation.

