CWE

Common Weakness Enumeration

A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become vulnerabilities

New to CWE? click here!
CWE Most Important Hardware Weaknesses
CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Weaknesses
Home > CWE List > CWE- Individual Dictionary Definition (4.14)                                                                                                   ID Lookup: [                    ] [Go]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Home
  • About ▼
    About New to CWE User Stories History Documents FAQs Glossary Compatibility
  • CWE List ▼
    Latest Version Downloads Reports Visualizations Archive
  • Mapping ▼
    Root Cause Mapping Guidance Root Cause Mapping Quick Tips Root Cause Mapping Examples
  • Top-N Lists ▼
    Top 25 Software Top Hardware Top 10 KEV Weaknesses
  • Community ▼
    Community Working Groups & Special Interest Groups Board Board Meeting Minutes CWE Discussion List CWE Discussion Archives Contribute Weakness Content to CWE
  • News ▼
    Current News X-Twitter ● Mastodon ● LinkedIn ● YouTube YouTube Podcast Out of Bounds Read Podcast Medium Medium News Archive
  • Search

 
 CWE Glossary Definition                  x
 
 
 CWE-941: Incorrectly Specified Destination in a Communication Channel
 
 Weakness ID: 941
 Vulnerability Mapping: ALLOWEDThis CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities
 Abstraction: BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level
 weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.
 View customized information:
 Conceptual For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. Operational For users who are concerned with the
 practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. Mapping
 Friendly For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. 
 Complete For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. Custom For users who want to customize what details are displayed.
 ×

 Edit Custom Filter

 Conceptual Operational Mapping Friendly Select All
 
 Reset Clear Submit Cancel
 + Description
 The product creates a communication channel to initiate an outgoing request to an actor, but it does not correctly specify the intended destination for that actor.
 + Extended Description
 
 Attackers at the destination may be able to spoof trusted servers to steal data or cause a denial of service.

 There are at least two distinct weaknesses that can cause the product to communicate with an unintended destination:

   • If the product allows an attacker to control which destination is specified, then the attacker can cause it to connect to an untrusted or malicious destination. For example, because UDP is a
     connectionless protocol, UDP packets can be spoofed by specifying a false source address in the packet; when the server receives the packet and sends a reply, it will specify a destination by
     using the source of the incoming packet - i.e., the false source. The server can then be tricked into sending traffic to the wrong host, which is effective for hiding the real source of an attack
     and for conducting a distributed denial of service (DDoS). As another example, server-side request forgery (SSRF) and XML External Entity (XXE) can be used to trick a server into making outgoing
     requests to hosts that cannot be directly accessed by the attacker due to firewall restrictions.
   • If the product incorrectly specifies the destination, then an attacker who can control this destination might be able to spoof trusted servers. While the most common occurrence is likely due to
     misconfiguration by an administrator, this can be resultant from other weaknesses. For example, the product might incorrectly parse an e-mail or IP address and send sensitive data to an
     unintended destination. As another example, an Android application may use a "sticky broadcast" to communicate with a receiver for a particular application, but since sticky broadcasts can be
     processed by *any* receiver, this can allow a malicious application to access restricted data that was only intended for a different application.

 + Relationships
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                             Type                                                                                                                                                                           ID         Name
 ChildOf                                                                               ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        923     Improper
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             Restriction of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Channel to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Intended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Endpoints
 CanPrecede                                                                            ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        406     Insufficient
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             Control of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Message Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Amplification)
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 417     Communication Channel Errors
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1014    Identify Actors
 + Modes Of Introduction
 Section HelpThe different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur,
 while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.
          Phase                                                                                             Note
 Architecture and Design
 Implementation          REALIZATION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 + Applicable Platforms
 Section HelpThis listing shows possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a
 class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.

 Languages

 Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)

 Technologies

 Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)

 + Demonstrative Examples
 
 Example 1

 This code listens on a port for DNS requests and sends the result to the requesting address.

 (bad code)
 Example Language: Python 
 sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM)
 sock.bind( (UDP_IP,UDP_PORT) )
 while true:
 data = sock.recvfrom(1024)
 if not data:
 break

 (requestIP, nameToResolve) = parseUDPpacket(data)
 record = resolveName(nameToResolve)
 sendResponse(requestIP,record)

 This code sends a DNS record to a requesting IP address. UDP allows the source IP address to be easily changed ('spoofed'), thus allowing an attacker to redirect responses to a target, which may be
 then be overwhelmed by the network traffic.

 + Observed Examples
        Reference                                                                                        Description
 CVE-2013-5211           composite: NTP feature generates large responses (high amplification factor) with spoofed UDP source addresses.
 CVE-1999-0513           Classic "Smurf" attack, using spoofed ICMP packets to broadcast addresses.
 CVE-1999-1379           DNS query with spoofed source address causes more traffic to be returned to spoofed address than was sent by the attacker.
 + Memberships
 Section HelpThis MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness
 fits within the context of external information sources.
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1396    Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 + Vulnerability Mapping Notes
 Usage: ALLOWED

 (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
 Reason: Acceptable-Use

 Rationale:

 This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
 Comments:

 Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred
 level of abstraction.
 + References
 [REF-941] US-CERT. "UDP-based Amplification Attacks". 2014-01-17. <https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/TA14-017A>.
 [REF-942] Fortify. "Android Bad Practices: Sticky Broadcast". <https://www.hpe.com/us/en/solutions/infrastructure-security.html?jumpid=va_wnmstr1ug6_aid-510326901>. URL validated: 2023-04-07.
 + Content History
                                                                                            + Submissions
                    Submission Date                                                       Submitter                                                             Organization
 2014-02-13                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
 (CWE 2.6, 2014-02-19)

                                                                                           + Modifications
                   Modification Date                                                       Modifier                                                             Organization
 2017-11-08                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated Modes_of_Introduction, References, Relationships
 2020-02-24                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated Applicable_Platforms, Relationships
 2021-03-15                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated Maintenance_Notes
 2023-01-31                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated Description
 2023-04-27                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated References, Relationships
 2023-06-29                                            CWE Content Team                                                                 MITRE
                                                       updated Mapping_Notes
 More information is available — Please edit the custom filter or select a different filter.
Page Last Updated: February 29, 2024
 
      Site Map | Terms of Use | Manage Cookies | Cookie Notice | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | CWE X-Twitter CWE Mastodon CWE on LinkedIn CWE YouTube channel CWE Out-of-Bounds-Read Podcast CWE
      Blog on Medium blog

MITRE Use of the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) and the associated references from this website are subject to the Terms of Use. CWE is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland         HSSEDI
      Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and managed by the Homeland Security Systems Engineering and Development Institute (HSSEDI) which is operated by
      The MITRE Corporation (MITRE). Copyright © 2006–2024, The MITRE Corporation. CWE, CWSS, CWRAF, and the CWE logo are trademarks of The MITRE Corporation.

