CWE

Common Weakness Enumeration

A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become vulnerabilities

New to CWE? click here!
CWE Most Important Hardware Weaknesses
CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Weaknesses
Home > CWE List > CWE- Individual Dictionary Definition (4.14)                                                                                                   ID Lookup: [                    ] [Go]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Home
  • About ▼
    About New to CWE User Stories History Documents FAQs Glossary Compatibility
  • CWE List ▼
    Latest Version Downloads Reports Visualizations Archive
  • Mapping ▼
    Root Cause Mapping Guidance Root Cause Mapping Quick Tips Root Cause Mapping Examples
  • Top-N Lists ▼
    Top 25 Software Top Hardware Top 10 KEV Weaknesses
  • Community ▼
    Community Working Groups & Special Interest Groups Board Board Meeting Minutes CWE Discussion List CWE Discussion Archives Contribute Weakness Content to CWE
  • News ▼
    Current News X-Twitter ● Mastodon ● LinkedIn ● YouTube YouTube Podcast Out of Bounds Read Podcast Medium Medium News Archive
  • Search

 
 CWE Glossary Definition                  x
 
 
 CWE-826: Premature Release of Resource During Expected Lifetime
 
 Weakness ID: 826
 Vulnerability Mapping: ALLOWEDThis CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities
 Abstraction: BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level
 weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.
 View customized information:
 Conceptual For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. Operational For users who are concerned with the
 practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. Mapping
 Friendly For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. 
 Complete For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. Custom For users who want to customize what details are displayed.
 ×

 Edit Custom Filter

 Conceptual Operational Mapping Friendly Select All
 
 Reset Clear Submit Cancel
 + Description
 The product releases a resource that is still intended to be used by itself or another actor.
 + Extended Description
 
 This weakness focuses on errors in which the product should not release a resource, but performs the release anyway. This is different than a weakness in which the product releases a resource at the
 appropriate time, but it maintains a reference to the resource, which it later accesses. For this weakness, the resource should still be valid upon the subsequent access.

 When a product releases a resource that is still being used, it is possible that operations will still be taken on this resource, which may have been repurposed in the meantime, leading to issues
 similar to CWE-825. Consequences may include denial of service, information exposure, or code execution.

 + Relationships
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                             Type                                                                                                                                                                           ID       Name
 ChildOf                                                                               ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        666     Operation
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in Wrong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Phase of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lifetime
 CanPrecede                                                                            ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        672     Operation
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             on a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             after
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Expiration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             or Release
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 399     Resource Management Errors
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 840     Business Logic Errors
 + Common Consequences
 Section HelpThis table specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the
 negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen
 relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited
 to achieve a different impact.
       Scope                                                                                     Impact                                                                                 Likelihood
                    Technical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Memory
 Confidentiality
                    If the released resource is subsequently reused or reallocated, then a read operation on the original resource might access sensitive data that is associated
                    with a different user or entity.
                    Technical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
 Availability
                    When the resource is released, the software might modify some of its structure, or close associated channels (such as a file descriptor). When the software later
                    accesses the resource as if it is valid, the resource might not be in an expected state, leading to resultant errors that may lead to a crash.
                    Technical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Application Data; Modify Memory
 Integrity
 Confidentiality    When the resource is released, the software might modify some of its structure. This might affect logic in the sections of code that still assume the resource is
 Availability       active. If the released resource is related to memory and is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation, then code execution may
                    be possible upon subsequent accesses.
 + Observed Examples
        Reference                                                                                        Description
 CVE-2009-3547           Chain: race condition (CWE-362) might allow resource to be released before operating on it, leading to NULL dereference (CWE-476)
 + Memberships
 Section HelpThis MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness
 fits within the context of external information sources.
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1415    Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 + Vulnerability Mapping Notes
 Usage: ALLOWED

 (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
 Reason: Acceptable-Use

 Rationale:

 This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
 Comments:

 Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred
 level of abstraction.
 + Notes
 
 Research Gap

 Under-studied and under-reported as of September 2010. This weakness has been reported in high-visibility software, although the focus has been primarily on memory allocation and de-allocation. There
 are very few examples of this weakness that are not directly related to memory management, although such weaknesses are likely to occur in real-world software for other types of resources.
 + Content History
                                                                                            + Submissions
                            Submission Date                                                            Submitter                                                    Organization
 2010-09-22                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
 (CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)

                                                                                           + Modifications
                           Modification Date                                                           Modifier                                                     Organization
 2011-06-01                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Common_Consequences
 2020-02-24                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Description, Relationships
 2023-01-31                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Common_Consequences, Description
 2023-04-27                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Relationships
 2023-06-29                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Mapping_Notes
 2023-10-26                                                             CWE Content Team                                                        MITRE
                                                                        updated Observed_Examples
 More information is available — Please edit the custom filter or select a different filter.
Page Last Updated: February 29, 2024
 
      Site Map | Terms of Use | Manage Cookies | Cookie Notice | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | CWE X-Twitter CWE Mastodon CWE on LinkedIn CWE YouTube channel CWE Out-of-Bounds-Read Podcast CWE
      Blog on Medium blog

MITRE Use of the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) and the associated references from this website are subject to the Terms of Use. CWE is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland         HSSEDI
      Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and managed by the Homeland Security Systems Engineering and Development Institute (HSSEDI) which is operated by
      The MITRE Corporation (MITRE). Copyright © 2006–2024, The MITRE Corporation. CWE, CWSS, CWRAF, and the CWE logo are trademarks of The MITRE Corporation.

