CWE

Common Weakness Enumeration

A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become vulnerabilities

New to CWE? click here!
CWE Most Important Hardware Weaknesses
CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Weaknesses
Home > CWE List > CWE- Individual Dictionary Definition (4.14)                                                                                                   ID Lookup: [                    ] [Go]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Home
  • About ▼
    About New to CWE User Stories History Documents FAQs Glossary Compatibility
  • CWE List ▼
    Latest Version Downloads Reports Visualizations Archive
  • Mapping ▼
    Root Cause Mapping Guidance Root Cause Mapping Quick Tips Root Cause Mapping Examples
  • Top-N Lists ▼
    Top 25 Software Top Hardware Top 10 KEV Weaknesses
  • Community ▼
    Community Working Groups & Special Interest Groups Board Board Meeting Minutes CWE Discussion List CWE Discussion Archives Contribute Weakness Content to CWE
  • News ▼
    Current News X-Twitter ● Mastodon ● LinkedIn ● YouTube YouTube Podcast Out of Bounds Read Podcast Medium Medium News Archive
  • Search

 
 CWE Glossary Definition                  x
 
 
 CWE-1286: Improper Validation of Syntactic Correctness of Input
 
 Weakness ID: 1286
 Vulnerability Mapping: ALLOWEDThis CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities
 Abstraction: BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level
 weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.
 View customized information:
 Conceptual For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. Operational For users who are concerned with the
 practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. Mapping
 Friendly For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. 
 Complete For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. Custom For users who want to customize what details are displayed.
 ×

 Edit Custom Filter

 Conceptual Operational Mapping Friendly Select All
 
 Reset Clear Submit Cancel
 + Description
 The product receives input that is expected to be well-formed - i.e., to comply with a certain syntax - but it does not validate or incorrectly validates that the input complies with the syntax.
 + Extended Description
 
 Often, complex inputs are expected to follow a particular syntax, which is either assumed by the input itself, or declared within metadata such as headers. The syntax could be for data exchange
 formats, markup languages, or even programming languages. When untrusted input is not properly validated for the expected syntax, attackers could cause parsing failures, trigger unexpected errors, or
 expose latent vulnerabilities that might not be directly exploitable if the input had conformed to the syntax.

 + Relationships
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                             Type                                                                                                                                                                           ID       Name
 ChildOf                                                                               ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        20      Improper
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             Input
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Validation
 ParentOf                                                                                  BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level weaknesses                                                                           112     Missing
                                                                                                                          typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.                                                                                                                  XML
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Validation
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1215    Data Validation Issues
 + Modes Of Introduction
 Section HelpThe different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur,
 while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.
     Phase                                                                                              Note
 Implementation
 + Applicable Platforms
 Section HelpThis listing shows possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a
 class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.

 Languages

 Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)

 + Common Consequences
 Section HelpThis table specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the
 negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen
 relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited
 to achieve a different impact.
       Scope                                                                                     Impact                                                                                 Likelihood
 Other              Technical Impact: Varies by Context

 + Demonstrative Examples
 
 Example 1

 The following code loads and parses an XML file.

 (bad code)
 Example Language: Java 

 // Read DOM
 try {
 ...
 DocumentBuilderFactory factory = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
 factory.setValidating( false );
 ....
 c_dom = factory.newDocumentBuilder().parse( xmlFile );
 } catch(Exception ex) {
 ...
 }

 The XML file is loaded without validating it against a known XML Schema or DTD.

 + Observed Examples
        Reference                                                                                        Description
 CVE-2016-4029           Chain: incorrect validation of intended decimal-based IP address format (CWE-1286) enables parsing of octal or hexadecimal formats (CWE-1389), allowing bypass of an SSRF
                         protection mechanism (CWE-918).
 CVE-2007-5893           HTTP request with missing protocol version number leads to crash
 + Potential Mitigations
 Phase: Implementation

 Strategy: Input Validation

 Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
 strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does.

 When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency
 across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
 valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."

 Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers
 enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.

 Effectiveness: High

 + Memberships
 Section HelpThis MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness
 fits within the context of external information sources.
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1406    Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input Validation
 + Vulnerability Mapping Notes
 Usage: ALLOWED

 (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
 Reason: Acceptable-Use

 Rationale:

 This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
 Comments:

 Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred
 level of abstraction.
 + Notes
 
 Maintenance

 This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 + Related Attack Patterns
    CAPEC-ID                                                                                     Attack Pattern Name
 CAPEC-66        SQL Injection
 CAPEC-676       NoSQL Injection
 + Content History
                                                                                            + Submissions
                                 Submission Date                                                              Submitter                                               Organization
 2020-06-24                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
 (CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)

                                                                                           + Modifications
                                Modification Date                                                             Modifier                                                Organization
 2020-08-20                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
                                                                                 updated Related_Attack_Patterns
 2022-04-28                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
                                                                                 updated Related_Attack_Patterns
 2022-10-13                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
                                                                                 updated Observed_Examples
 2023-04-27                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
                                                                                 updated Relationships
 2023-06-29                                                                      CWE Content Team                                                    MITRE
                                                                                 updated Mapping_Notes
 More information is available — Please edit the custom filter or select a different filter.
Page Last Updated: February 29, 2024
 
      Site Map | Terms of Use | Manage Cookies | Cookie Notice | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | CWE X-Twitter CWE Mastodon CWE on LinkedIn CWE YouTube channel CWE Out-of-Bounds-Read Podcast CWE
      Blog on Medium blog

MITRE Use of the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) and the associated references from this website are subject to the Terms of Use. CWE is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland         HSSEDI
      Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and managed by the Homeland Security Systems Engineering and Development Institute (HSSEDI) which is operated by
      The MITRE Corporation (MITRE). Copyright © 2006–2024, The MITRE Corporation. CWE, CWSS, CWRAF, and the CWE logo are trademarks of The MITRE Corporation.

