CWE

Common Weakness Enumeration

A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become vulnerabilities

New to CWE? click here!
CWE Most Important Hardware Weaknesses
CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Weaknesses
Home > CWE List > CWE- Individual Dictionary Definition (4.14)                                                                                                   ID Lookup: [                    ] [Go]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Home
  • About ▼
    About New to CWE User Stories History Documents FAQs Glossary Compatibility
  • CWE List ▼
    Latest Version Downloads Reports Visualizations Archive
  • Mapping ▼
    Root Cause Mapping Guidance Root Cause Mapping Quick Tips Root Cause Mapping Examples
  • Top-N Lists ▼
    Top 25 Software Top Hardware Top 10 KEV Weaknesses
  • Community ▼
    Community Working Groups & Special Interest Groups Board Board Meeting Minutes CWE Discussion List CWE Discussion Archives Contribute Weakness Content to CWE
  • News ▼
    Current News X-Twitter ● Mastodon ● LinkedIn ● YouTube YouTube Podcast Out of Bounds Read Podcast Medium Medium News Archive
  • Search

 
 CWE Glossary Definition                  x
 
 
 CWE-1236: Improper Neutralization of Formula Elements in a CSV File
 
 Weakness ID: 1236
 Vulnerability Mapping: ALLOWEDThis CWE ID may be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities
 Abstraction: BaseBase - a weakness that is still mostly independent of a resource or technology, but with sufficient details to provide specific methods for detection and prevention. Base level
 weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 2 or 3 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, technology, language, and resource.
 View customized information:
 Conceptual For users who are interested in more notional aspects of a weakness. Example: educators, technical writers, and project/program managers. Operational For users who are concerned with the
 practical application and details about the nature of a weakness and how to prevent it from happening. Example: tool developers, security researchers, pen-testers, incident response analysts. Mapping
 Friendly For users who are mapping an issue to CWE/CAPEC IDs, i.e., finding the most appropriate CWE for a specific issue (e.g., a CVE record). Example: tool developers, security researchers. 
 Complete For users who wish to see all available information for the CWE/CAPEC entry. Custom For users who want to customize what details are displayed.
 ×

 Edit Custom Filter

 Conceptual Operational Mapping Friendly Select All
 
 Reset Clear Submit Cancel
 + Description
 The product saves user-provided information into a Comma-Separated Value (CSV) file, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could be interpreted as a command when
 the file is opened by a spreadsheet product.
 + Extended Description
 User-provided data is often saved to traditional databases. This data can be exported to a CSV file, which allows users to read the data using spreadsheet software such as Excel, Numbers, or Calc.
 This software interprets entries beginning with '=' as formulas, which are then executed by the spreadsheet software. The software's formula language often allows methods to access hyperlinks or the
 local command line, and frequently allows enough characters to invoke an entire script. Attackers can populate data fields which, when saved to a CSV file, may attempt information exfiltration or
 other malicious activity when automatically executed by the spreadsheet software.
 + Alternate Terms
     CSV Injection
   Formula Injection
 Excel Macro Injection
 + Relationships
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                             Type                                                                                                                                                                           ID         Name
 ChildOf                                                                               ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        74      Improper
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             Neutralization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of Special
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Elements in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Output Used by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a Downstream
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Component
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ('Injection')
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 137     Data Neutralization Issues
 Section HelpThis table shows the weaknesses and high level categories that are related to this weakness. These relationships are defined as ChildOf, ParentOf, MemberOf and give insight to similar
 items that may exist at higher and lower levels of abstraction. In addition, relationships such as PeerOf and CanAlsoBe are defined to show similar weaknesses that the user may want to explore.
 + Relevant to the view "Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published Vulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
     Nature                                                                                                                                                                             Type                                                                                                                                                                           ID         Name
 ChildOf                                                                               ClassClass - a weakness that is described in a very abstract fashion, typically independent of any specific language or technology. More specific than a Pillar Weakness, but more general than a Base                                                                        74      Improper
                                                                                                                    Weakness. Class level weaknesses typically describe issues in terms of 1 or 2 of the following dimensions: behavior, property, and resource.                                                                                                             Neutralization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of Special
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Elements in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Output Used by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a Downstream
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Component
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ('Injection')
 + Modes Of Introduction
 Section HelpThe different Modes of Introduction provide information about how and when this weakness may be introduced. The Phase identifies a point in the life cycle at which introduction may occur,
 while the Note provides a typical scenario related to introduction during the given phase.
     Phase                                                                                              Note
 Implementation The weakness is in the implementation of a software's CSV export feature, in particular how it formats formula entries as the output gets flattened into a text file.
 + Applicable Platforms
 Section HelpThis listing shows possible areas for which the given weakness could appear. These may be for specific named Languages, Operating Systems, Architectures, Paradigms, Technologies, or a
 class of such platforms. The platform is listed along with how frequently the given weakness appears for that instance.

 Languages

 Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)

 Operating Systems

 Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)

 Architectures

 Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)

 Technologies

 Other (Undetermined Prevalence)

 + Common Consequences
 Section HelpThis table specifies different individual consequences associated with the weakness. The Scope identifies the application security area that is violated, while the Impact describes the
 negative technical impact that arises if an adversary succeeds in exploiting this weakness. The Likelihood provides information about how likely the specific consequence is expected to be seen
 relative to the other consequences in the list. For example, there may be high likelihood that a weakness will be exploited to achieve a certain impact, but a low likelihood that it will be exploited
 to achieve a different impact.
       Scope                                                                                     Impact                                                                                 Likelihood
                    Technical Impact: Read Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Confidentiality                                                                                                                                                                      Low
                    Current versions of Excel warn users of untrusted content.
 + Demonstrative Examples
 
 Example 1

 Hyperlinks or other commands can be executed when a cell begins with the formula identifier, '='

 (attack code)
 Example Language: Other 

 =HYPERLINK(link_location, [friendly_name])

 Stripping the leading equals sign, or simply not executing formulas from untrusted sources, impedes malicious activity.

 (good code)
  

 HYPERLINK(link_location, [friendly_name])

 + Observed Examples
        Reference                                                                                        Description
 CVE-2019-12134          Low privileged user can trigger CSV injection through a contact form field value
 CVE-2019-4521           Cloud management product allows arbitrary command execution via CSV injection
 CVE-2019-17661          CSV injection in content management system via formula code in a first or last name
 + Potential Mitigations
 Phase: Implementation

 When generating CSV output, ensure that formula-sensitive metacharacters are effectively escaped or removed from all data before storage in the resultant CSV. Risky characters include '='
 (equal), '+' (plus), '-' (minus), and '@' (at).

 Effectiveness: Moderate

 Note: Unfortunately, there is no perfect solution, since different spreadsheet products act differently.
 Phase: Implementation

 If a field starts with a formula character, prepend it with a ' (single apostrophe), which prevents Excel from executing the formula.

 Effectiveness: Moderate

 Note: It is not clear how effective this mitigation is with other spreadsheet software.
 Phase: Architecture and Design

 Certain implementations of spreadsheet software might disallow formulas from executing if the file is untrusted, or if the file is not authored by the current user.

 Effectiveness: Limited

 Note: This mitigation has limited effectiveness because it often depends on end users opening spreadsheet software safely.
 + Memberships
 Section HelpThis MemberOf Relationships table shows additional CWE Categories and Views that reference this weakness as a member. This information is often useful in understanding where a weakness
 fits within the context of external information sources.
     Nature                                                       Type                                                     ID                                   Name
 MemberOf        CategoryCategory - a CWE entry that contains a set of other entries that share a common characteristic. 1409    Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 + Vulnerability Mapping Notes
 Usage: ALLOWED

 (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
 Reason: Acceptable-Use

 Rationale:

 This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
 Comments:

 Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/Variant simply to comply with this preferred
 level of abstraction.
 + References
 [REF-21] OWASP. "CSV Injection". 2020-02-02. <https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/CSV_Injection>.
 [REF-22] Jamie Rougvie. "Data Extraction to Command Execution CSV Injection". 2019-09-06. <https://www.veracode.com/blog/secure-development/data-extraction-command-execution-csv-injection>.
 [REF-23] George Mauer. "The Absurdly Underestimated Dangers of CSV Injection". 2017-10-07. <http://georgemauer.net/2017/10/07/csv-injection.html>.
 [REF-24] James Kettle. "Comma Separated Vulnerabilities". 2014-08-29. <https://rstforums.com/forum/topic/82690-comma-separated-vulnerabilities/>. URL validated: 2023-04-07.
 + Content History
                                                                                            + Submissions
                          Submission Date                                                          Submitter                                                       Organization
 2019-11-21                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
 (CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)

                                                                                           + Modifications
                         Modification Date                                                          Modifier                                                       Organization
 2020-08-20                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
                                                                   updated Relationships
 2021-03-15                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
                                                                   updated Description, Potential_Mitigations
 2023-01-31                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
                                                                   updated Description
 2023-04-27                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
                                                                   updated References, Relationships
 2023-06-29                                                        CWE Content Team                                                           MITRE
                                                                   updated Mapping_Notes
 More information is available — Please edit the custom filter or select a different filter.
Page Last Updated: February 29, 2024
 
      Site Map | Terms of Use | Manage Cookies | Cookie Notice | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | CWE X-Twitter CWE Mastodon CWE on LinkedIn CWE YouTube channel CWE Out-of-Bounds-Read Podcast CWE
      Blog on Medium blog

MITRE Use of the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) and the associated references from this website are subject to the Terms of Use. CWE is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland         HSSEDI
      Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and managed by the Homeland Security Systems Engineering and Development Institute (HSSEDI) which is operated by
      The MITRE Corporation (MITRE). Copyright © 2006–2024, The MITRE Corporation. CWE, CWSS, CWRAF, and the CWE logo are trademarks of The MITRE Corporation.

